---
slug: rankin
date: 2020-09-26T19:23:58.992Z
bookmark_of:
  url: http://interactions.acm.org/archive/view/september-october-2020/intersectionality-in-hci
  name: 'Yolanda Rankin, Jakita Thomas, and Nicole Joseph, "Intersectionality in
    HCI: Lost In Translation"'
tags:
  - hci
syndication:
  - https://twitter.com/anarchivist/status/1309939792449359878
  - https://chaos.social/@anarchivist/104932898259401726
---
> So how should researchers operationalize intersectionality in the context of HCI? Start by asking a series of questions: Are you thinking about everyone as you design this tool? Who is at the table to inform decisions about how this technology will be designed and for whom? Do the key stakeholders, intended users, and communities in which the technology is being situated for use reflect the diversity of humanity and respect for those who have a history of being disenfranchised and marginalized? How have I, as a person of privilege, co-constructed research engagements with marginalized scholars or communities? Am I conducting research on or with participants? In what ways have I interrogated my privilege (e.g., race or gender) to dismantle hegemonic systems of oppression that exist within HCI? Next, when summarizing findings in papers, be sure to include how power informs the research process. Scholars who use their findings to address intersectionality interrogate how widely accepted research traditions facilitate the social reproduction of whiteness. Calling this out in Method sections becomes an indicator of a scholar's commitment to using intersectionality for social justice in HCI.

See also the authors' proposed [reading list](https://bit.ly/2XEecTV) for potential resources. 