---
title: "fantômes submission"
date: 2021-01-26T19:31:26-08:00
slug: fantomes-submission
---

## on spectral hospitality

you should never suggest they show up unannounced. we dare expect to summon the ones we think we know, demanding clarity without context, answers to questions unspoken. at the same time, as guests they can become demanding, and we have our own matters to attend to in the meantime.

they queue up ever so slowly, politely - but while they can pass through walls, the specters i know choose not to. only the truly unprepared do not know to expect their return or arrival. sometimes you notice the chill as they shuffle past the thresholds and windows. feinting their presence with their eerie glow, unsettling scents of honeyed, damp decay, their movements audible as they enact in passing with the material world. but more often than not, they advance unnoticed, because they, like you, have work to do and conversations to have.

developing an interactive relationship with a ghost is about establishing a framework for which it is both safe for you to act. through and through, it is a selfless relationship of care, of mutual curiosity, quite like any burgeoning human relationship. but it is to accept that which is immediately unknowable, what cannot be negotiated without continued listening, repetition, and reflection. at its best and strongest, it is a continued invitation to haunt and be haunted, mediating a connection between worlds not easily accessible by everyone, and sustaining the bridge.

a host for a haunting should prepare by learning to let the spirit speak first. reviewing traces of the past can help, and acknowledgment of preferences and fears can set the tone to welcome as if you were to hang a lantern outside your door. if the spirit's details are hard to determine, pay particular attention to preparing as you would for any guest. however, these recommendations also hold even for hauntings by familiar spirits.

tidy your spaces, in your home or whereever you seek to engage with the ghost. provide seating for yourself and the spirit so that you can face one another, to see eye to eye. prepare yourself and the ghost a warm beverage, and place the cups on a table within reach. relax, close your eyes, and listen carefully. once you hear the ghost join you, silently welcome it, and allow it to speak as you sip tea. as you listen, take in and swallow its words as you feel the warmth of the infusion throughout your body.

* * *

as you continue to listen, you will feel the expectation of your voice to meet the specter's. begin with sharing what you digested, what you understand, and what remains uncertain, allowing the ghost to speak again, offering a second helping of its wisdom to you. allow this to continue for a few cycles until you have a mutual understanding.

at this point, you may ask the questions that you wish, inviting the spirit to understand more about you by what you wish to learn. be prepared to feel exposed, incomplete, and uncertain, as the language of the specter may not be as precise as your own.

to close the conversation, silently offer your thanks and acknowledge why you need to cease your interaction. encourage the ghost to return for another visit. if successful, you will most likely be assured that they will always be here, ready for the next conversation, and that it is incumbent upon you to make the space in your life to haunt and be haunted. close your eyes again, responding honestly, and slowly stand to acknowledge your return to the material world.
